.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2005 CNRS/LAAS
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd June 23, 2005
.Dt h2timeLib 3
.Os pocoLibs
.Sh NAME 
.Nm h2timeLib
.Nd pocoLibs time and date manipulation library
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd "#include <portLib.h>"
.Fd "#include <h2timeLib.h>"
.Ft void
.Fn h2timeInit void
.Ft STATUS
.Fn h2timeGet "H2TIME *pTimeStr"
.Ft STATUS
.Fn h2GetTimeSpec "H2TIMESPEC *pTimeSpec"
.Ft STATUS
.Fn h2timeInterval "H2TIME *pOldTime" "unsigned long *pNmsec"
.Ft void 
.Fn h2timeShow void
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn h2timeInit
initializes the time handling component of 
.Nm pocolibs. This function is normally called by the global
initialization function
.Xr h2initGlob 3 .
.Pp
.Fn h2timeGet
fills the H2TIME_STR structure pointed to by 
.Fa pTimeStr
with the current time. 
.Pp
.Fn h2GetTimeSpec
fills the H2TIMESPEC_STR structure pointed to by
.Fa pTimeSpec
with the current time. 
.Pp
.Fn h2timeInterval
computes the elapsed number of mili-seconds between the time structure
pointed to by
.Fa pOldTime
and the current time. The value is returned in the long pointed to by
.Fa pNmsec .
.Pp
.Fn h2timeShow
displays the current time and date on the standard output.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sysLib 3
