.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2005 CNRS/LAAS
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd January 21, 2005
.Dt logLib 3
.Os pocoLibs
.Sh NAME 
.Nm logLib
.Nd message logging library for pocoLibs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd "#include <portLib.h>"
.Fd "#include <logLib.h>"
.Ft STATUS
.Fn logInit "int fd" "int maxMsgs"
.Ft void
.Fn logEnd void
.Ft int 
.Fn logMsg "const char *fmt" ...
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn logMsg
queues a formatted message to the logging facility of 
.Nm pocoLibs .
.Fa fmt
is a 
.Xr printf 3
style format string, subsequent arguments are formatted according to
the specifiers found in the format string. 
.Pp
.Fn logInit
initialises the logging facility. 
.Fa fd 
is an open file descriptor.
.Fa maxMsgs 
is the maximum number of messages that will be queued in the logging
facility. 
.Pp
.Fn logEnd
terminates the logging facility.
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn logMsg
returns the number of characters queued.
.Pp
.Fn logInit
returns
.Dv
OK
or
.Dv ERROR
and sets the error code of the task in case of an error.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr printf 3 .
