.\" $LAAS$
.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2005 CNRS/LAAS
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd January 21, 2005
.Dt tickLib 3
.Os pocoLibs
.Sh NAME 
.Nm tickLib
.Nd clock tick access library for pocoLibs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd "#include <portLib.h>"
.Fd "#include <tickLib.h>"
.Ft void
.Fn tickAnnounce void
.Ft void
.Fn tickSet "unsigned long ticks"
.Ft unsigned long
.Fn tickGet void
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn tickAnnounce
is a function provided to be used as the default handler for the
system clock. This function handles the expiration of the system watch
dogs for 
.Nm pocoLibs
and handles the tick counter.
The default pocoLibs initialization routine, 
.Xr h2initGlob 3
registers this function as handler of the system clock.
.Pp
.Fn tickSet
sets the value of the tick counter to the value of 
.Fa ticks .
.Pp
.Fn ticGet
returns the current value of the tick counter.
.Sh COMPATIBILITY
.Fn tickAnnounce ,
.Fn tickSet ,
and 
.Fn tickGet
are designed to emulate the VxWorks function of the same name.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sysLib 3 ,
.Xr wdLib 3 .
