.\" Copyright (c) 1999-2005 CNRS/LAAS
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.\"
.Dd January 21, 2005
.Dt wdLib 3
.Os pocoLibs
.Sh NAME 
.Nm wdLib
.Nd watchdog library for pocoLibs
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Fd "#include <portLib.h>"
.Fd "#include <wdLib.h>"
.Ft STATUS
.Fn wdLibInit void
.Ft WDOG_ID
.Fn wdCreate void
.Ft STATUS
.Fn wdDelete "WDOG_ID wdId"
.Ft STATUS
.Fn wdStart "WDOG_ID wdID" "int delay" "FUNCPTR routine" \
"long parameter"
.Ft STATUS
.Fn wdCancel "WDOG_ID wdID"
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Fn wdLibInit
initializes the watch dog facility of 
.Nm pocoLibs
.Fn wdCreate
creates a new inactive watch dog. 
.Pp
.Fn wdDelete
destroys an exising watch dog.
.Pp
.Fn wdStart
starts the timer associated with a watch dog. 
.Fa wdId
is a watch dog identifier as returned by
.Fn wdCreate . 
.Fa delay 
is the number of ticks until the watch dog expires. 
.Fa routine
is a pointer to a function that will be called when the timer
expires. 
.Fa parameter 
is an integer value that will be passed to the 
.Fa routine
when it will be called.
.Pp
.Fn wdCancel
cancels the active watchDog designated by
.Fa wdId .
.Sh RETURN VALUES
.Fn wdCreate
returns the identifier of the newly created watchdor or 
.Dv NULL
if an error occured. 
.Pp
.Fn wdLibInit ,
.Fn wdDelete ,
.Fn wdStart 
and 
.Fn wdCancel
return
.Dv OK
or
.Dv ERROR
if an error ocurred. All functions set the task error code in case of
errors. 
.Sh ERRORS
The error code of the current task can be set to:
.Bl -tag -width Er
.It Bq Er S_memLib_NOT_ENOUGH_MEMORY
The allocation of memory for a new watchog failed.
.It Bq Eq S_objLib_OBJ_ID_ERROR
The 
.Fa wdId
passed to a function is not valid.
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr sysLib 3 ,
.Xr timerLib 3 .
